The people worship a single god, mor or less. He has many names, but ultimately he's thought to be well above such concepts.
They believe he created the world and everything around it.
Not all believe in him at all, and there's a couple divisive factions about what they believe, but those who do believe agree on that much.
While he has many names given by different factions and cultures, most recognize him as Tou. It's a word from one of their ancient languages, meaning "government", for in those early days that is what he was.
Tou constructed, presumably with little more than a thought and a wave of his hand, a massive stone bowl 500m in diameter and 100m deep. From the bottom of this bowl sprouts a large stone monolith. It is perfectly cylindrical, 10m in diameter and 500m tall. Every 10m along its length is a band of metal molded around it. It's no metal you'd recognize. The people call it tenax, or t-metal. It has unusual properties and seems to only occur where Tou has changed things. It does not scratch or corrode, and cannot be smelted by traditional methods.
This monolith was Tou's gateway. When he'd visit, there was a flash of light so bright your hand couldn't shield you from it, yet somehow the light never harmed anyone. After the flash, Tou would be there, standing atop the tower clothed in white. He'd leap down from the tower and visit with the people he'd created, and see how they were doing in the world he'd made for them.
The different religions disagree mostly on why Tou created this world in the first place. Some believe it was because he was lonely. Others reject the notion, believing Tou is above such petty emotions. They assert that Tou, in his awesome perfection, wished to have his will carried out by servants, and created them for this purpose.
Either way, even non-believers don't doubt that Tou existed and would visit this world.
Tou created the first monolith, but he instructed the people to build more. Perfect replicas all over the world. He told them that if they needed anything, to simply come to the nearest monolith and wait. He'd help them when he visited next.
And, for a time, this was wonderful for the people. Tou would visit regularly, at least once every lunar cycle, and stay for days to commune with the people and help those who needed it. It provided technology, mathematics, science, tools the people could use to better themselves.
Over the centuries, Tou's visits grew more and more sparse. A solar year would pass between visits, and then longer.
Cad'ika Orade08/09/2018
The last time Tou visited, it had been over 100 years since he last had. There had been wars, famines, plagues, genocides. His world had grown chaotic. The people rejoiced to learn Tou had returned once more, and flocked to the monoliths to see him. So many had given up waiting. Tou went from monolith to monolith, looking over the multitudes that had gathered at each, but without saying anything. When Tou finally spoke, it is said that the whole world heard him at once. He told the people that he felt pity for them, and that they had lost their way. Because of this, he was changing everything. 

Tou held up his arms and around him rocks rose from the ground and took the shape of people. They had neither clothing, nor anatomy that would require them. They had no eyes, ears noses, or hair.Dozens of them rose, and began to run in different directions. Tou declared these beings his helpers before vanishing again.
The helpers, whom the people call Tousons, spread across the world immediately. The Tousons could not change things in the way Tou himself could, but they were tireless, unceasing in their toil, and much stronger than a mortal man. They would carry tanks of water, plow and plant crops, sprint for days to deliver medicine, anything that was needed by the people. And for a time, it was good.
It has been approximately 5,000 years since Tou last visited, since he created the Tousons.
Tousons do not age, nor do they tire or sleep or eat. They may or may not bleed, but their bones do not seem to bleed nor does their skin cut, scrape, or tear.
More frighteningly, they learn, they cooperate perfectly, and they are extremely fair.
By the year 500 AT (After Tou), the Tousons had begun not only offering aid to those in need but actively punishing wrongdoers. The Touson definition of wrongdoer, however, was a mystery to the people. There was a growing sentiment that the Tousons were malicious in their notion of justice, or preying on people who seemed to be innocent of any crime. Their punishments were swift and inexplicable. In most cases, the Tousons would either confiscate property of minorly mutilate the offender. In other cases, they may publicly rip the offender to shreds in the middle of a village, or just grab them and start running, never to return.
The people grew fearful of their capricious guardians.
Cad'ika Orade08/09/2018
In the year 578 AT, the first organized rebellion took place. Armed with hand cannons, the most advanced weapons at the time, a band of rebels seized control of their town's government and declared that any Touson who entered within the city walls would be executed.
A few uneventful days passed before a Touson marched into the town and seized a pickpocket. The rebels let loose a volley of lead balls, but the Touson was utterly unaffected. The rebels charged the Touson with various bladed and blunt weapons, but despite their vicious beatings the Touson simply kept walking.
What heppened next would change the world forever. The leader of the rebels ran up behind the Touson and stabbed into its back with a knife. The knife was made of tenax metal, forged with a new process. The blade cut deep into the Touson's flesh,  spewing blood as black as pitch in all directions. The Touson was killed instantly, and the rebels celebrated a victory.

Precisely what happened that night is hard to say. As night fell, thousands and thousands of Tousons converged around the city, standing motionless until the sun fell below the horizon. The only eyewitness accounts describe every fire and candle in the city being snuffed simultaneously, and a deafening scream from all directions. By morning, every person over the age of 10 years was missing, and every surface within the city walls was coated in a sticky red paste. The surviving children fled to nearby villages and were all found to be totally deaf from the ordeal.
Two things changed forever that day. The Tousons were no longer invulnerable, and it was known they could be harmed by weapons forged from tenax. The Tousons no longer helped the people, appearing to people only to dole out punishment. Worse, they stopped intervening in violent crimes such as murder or rape.
By the year 2,000 AT, cultures around the world regarded the Tourons no longer as helpers but as punishers. They were thought to exist as Tou's punishment upon his people, punishment for not living to Tou's standards of morality.
Tou's standards of morality, of course, were heavily debated.  Tou had stopped returning regularly before writing existed, leaving most of what they knew of him to oral tradition. Scholars and spiritual leaders formed a myriad of different philosophies, each convinced their was the closest reflection to Tou himself.
Damen08/09/2018
This is a very intimidating wall of text
Skylark-Torch08/18/2018
I found it to be a fascinating read.
Cad'ika Orade09/21/2018
Today, there are many nations across the world but the four most powerful dominate the global political and economic landscape.
The Toufaith Ascendancy, the Kingdom of Lamishka, the Ergostich Union, and Kwandish.
Cad'ika Orade09/21/2018
The Toufaith Ascendancy is by far the smallest of the superpowers but religious tradition across the world has kept them revered and respected through the centuries.
They are a pure Theocracy, led by the chosen Touspoke who, as his title would imply, is believed to communicate with Tou himself. Even those who don't believe the Touspoke truly hears Tou still respect him as he is undeniably the leader in maintaining and refining the common religious traditions surrounding the study and worship of Tou. Within the small borders of the Toufaith, the Tousons still walk among the mortal people and offer aid to those in need. These Tousons even wear a simplified version of the Toufaith clerical garments. Little more than a red sash with Tou's parting words rendered in tenax beads, but still utterly unique of any Tousons across the world. There is a growing movement seeking to discredit the Toufaith and the Touspoke, accusing him of manipulating the Tousons in some way. It is a small, scattered movement commonly branded as heretical, but their arguments have been creating doubt in the minds of many less faithful.
Cad'ika Orade09/21/2018
The Kingdom of Lamiska has been a hotbed of revolution through its long history. The kingdom was originally established by Lamis, one of the children who were spared by the Tousons in the Bloody Judgement of 578 AT. Lamis had seen everything, and had watched his parents killed, mutilated, and macerated. He found the infamous tanax metal knife that brought the massacre upon his people, and took it with him as he began to wander. Lamis was adopted by a nomadic tribe of merchants, the Prekosh they called themselves. The Prekosh carried a pre-Tou tradition of their own, believing that Tou was less a creator and more a consequence of the world's being. Lamis, already disillusioned of Tou's benevolence after witnessing the atrocities carried out by the Tousons, adopted this system of beliefs himself. In time, Lamis grew to become the leader of the Prekosh tribe and led them to form a permanent settlement. The Prekosh village grew to be an economic hub, and Lamis grew in wealth and power. He plied his wealth to accumulate tanax metal, which he had forged into weapons and armor. His palace was adorned in the exotic metal, and he was never seen without his ceremonial tanax armor or his tanax sword, forged from the original knife. As prepared as he and his people were, no Touson was ever spotted in or near the Prekosh.
Cad'ika Orade09/21/2018
Upon Lamis' death, his eldest son Takil Lamis-son, took the throne and renamed the Prekosh city Lamishka, in honor of his father. Takil's hatred of Tou and the Tousons was carefully groomed by his father, and Takil had a very Prekosh intuition for commerce. Lamishka quickly grew in wealth, industry, and land under Takil's rule, and he applied this wealth to taking a more antagonistic stance against the Tousons. Takil established an order of elite knights under his personal command. They were equipped in the most advanced tanax armor and carried the most exotic weapons forged from tanax and coated in concentrated poisons and venoms that were said to effect Tousons. Takil's subjects began to call him Tou-bane, a moniker he proudly adopted. Takil Tou-bane and the Knights of Tou-bane traveled from village to village hunting for Tousons and offering protection to smaller settlements in exchange for their fealty. Takil and his knights were effective, slaughtering several Tousons and defending themselves from retaliatory attacks on several occasions. This was until Takil soared too close to the sun, as the Toufaith histories describe. After expending a non-trivial portion of his vast wealth, Takil had obtained an ancient manuscript that described the secret home of the Tousons, an island said to be the only place Tou ever visits, and where new Tousons are created. Takil Tou-bane and the Knights of Tou-bane embarked immediately, marching to the coast and setting sail towards the legendary island.

Takil and his knights never returned. Months later, the people in the Lamishka capital awoke to a spectacle in the city square. Takil's armor, the armor of all his knights, and the tanax weapons had all appeared in the middle of the square, neatly laid out with no signs of damage.
Cad'ika Orade09/21/2018
Takil's eldest, only 15 years old at the time, promptly took the throne. Gerth Takil-son promptly announced he intended to rebuild his father's knights and send an army to find where his father's expedition had failed and take retribution. The people, however, were terrified of Touson retribution, and Gerth's younger brother Mishos Tekil-son was keen to prey on this fear. In secret, Mishos opened communications with the Toufaith Ascendancy, and the Touspoke was only too happy to help spread the fear of Tou among the pagans of Lamishka.

In the year 650 AT, less than a year after Gerth's ascension to the throne, the people of Lamishka revolted and seized control of the palace, led by Mishos Tekil-son. Gerth was dragged into the streets and flogged, a ritual of penance to absolve the kingdom of their guilt before Tou and his sons. Gerth Takil-son was imprisoned within the Lamiska Palace, according to official records, but neither his release, escape, nor death were ever accounted for. Mishos Tou-penitent took the throne, accompanied by a high cleric appointed by the Touspoke, who had official power equal to that of the new king.
Cad'ika Orade09/21/2018
By 2,000 AT, Lamishka would see two more uprisings, one of the working class and one of the growing secularists. With each, a new throne was added to the Lamishka palace. Today there are four, each with a symbolic role. The first, forged of tanax metal, belongs to her majesty Mareen Vic-daughter, a direct descendant of Gorouche Bard-son who had seized the throne amid a scandal involving the legitimacy of the current king's (Vertros Gelt-son)  conception, breaking the lineage of royalty. The second is crafted of gold, and is occupied by the Touspoke's current appointee, a high cleric who has long since surrendered his name as part of his vows. The third is forged of iron, and is occupied by the "elected" representative of the collected labor unions, Vekel None-son. The fourth is molded from glass, and is occupied by Secularist Officer, who is selected randomly from among the registered secularists within the kingdom.
Ostensibly, these four shared absolute power equally within the kingdom, but in practice it isn't as simple or stable as one might expect.
Cad'ika Orade09/21/2018
It is a poorly kept secret that, in the centuries since the Workers' Revolt of 899 AT, the Collected Labor Unions has become less a representative of the workers. At best, they've become an uncontrolled regulator and enforcement organization, and worst they've become a very large racketeering operation. The upper echelon of the CLU is secretive and clandestine, comprised of most of the wealthiest industrialists in the kingdom, many of them tied to foreign and domestic interests outside of the CLU. All businesses in the kingdom either submit to the "protection" of the CLU or fall upon mysteriously bad luck. The one alternative is to brand your business as serving Tou, in which case Toufaith representatives see to it that all profit is collected in the name of Tou.
Cad'ika Orade09/21/2018
Given their ultimate control over industry and commerce, the CLU representative has greater power than the others.
The Secularist representative is little more than a figurehead, easily overruled by the others. The transparency of the Secularist appointment process does not allow them to accumulate enough clout to defy the CLU, let alone the others.
The Monarchy has relinquished power since Mishos, sold to the authority of the Touspoke. In practice, all decisions are made between the Toufaith cleric and the CLU representative.
As of late, the balance has begun to shift!
Queen Mareen Vic-daughter has broken tradition and begun to side with the CLU or even Secularists on certain decisions, raising the ire of the Toufaith. The Secularists have become more vocal, calling for limitations upon the CLU. It is unclear what the future of the Kingdom of Lamiska will be, and many are predicting a fourth revolution very soon.
Cad'ika Orade09/21/2018
The Ergostich Union is the youngest, but certainly the most populous nation in the world.
In the year 1903 AT, a massive war broke out between every nation on the continent. The war was made up of 7 major factions, the 7 largest nations and their closest allies. Nations who postured themselves as neutral were promptly invaded. The 7 factions warred until 1974 AT before agreeing on a treaty. The treaty was written in bitterness and resentment, and mandated that the 7 factions have their government officials removed from office, and all nations unify under a single constitutional code. The Union was formed less in the pursuit of peace, and more for mutual punishment, and the original 62 nations had been reduced to 35 nation states. In the years since the Great War, the individual nations have continued to foster resentment against their neighbors, striving to establish cultural individuality.
Today, most of the states are in the midst of a shift. The older generation that remembers the Great War is fading, and a younger generation doesn't hold the same bitterness. These younger citizens are themselves split into different political orientations. Two strengthening movements are calling the Union outdated or defunct, using similar arguments to call for either the dissolution of the Union, or further unification of nation states.
Cad'ika Orade09/21/2018
Kwandish is much smaller than the Ergostich Union but larger than the Kingdom of Lamishka, geographically. However, it has maintained almost complete isolation since ancient times so little is know of it by the rest of the world.
Kwandish alone occupies a small continent, isolated by open ocean on all sides. Their coasts are heavily patrolled by their navy, and watched by a network of army posts. The Kwandishi people were completely unknown to the rest of the world prior to 1,000 AT, when the current Kwandishi government was established and ambassadors were dispatched to establish formal, albeit quiet relationships with every other nation in the world. At the time, many cultures lacked the naval capabilities required to chart the whole ocean and confirm Kwandish existed at all, leading some to believe it was a hoax.
Kwandish has never declared war outside of its borders, but has also never allowed an outsider to visit. The only known conflicts they've been involved in have been incursion attempts by other nations and the occasional pirate raider. None ever got far enough to set foot on the sandy Kwandishi beaches.
Cad'ika Orade09/21/2018
In ancient times, the Kwandishi landmass was settled by numerous tribes who established small towns and agrarian societies. Up until Tou's last appearance and the rise of the Tousons, the various tribes were limited by minor conflicts and fiercely-defended claims over different regions. In 14 AT, one tribe saw the birth of child who bore a striking resemblance to a Touson. The child had no external ears, nose, or eyes. The child's birth was seen as a sign and he was raised at a monastery by a sect of monks who studied Tou's words as they patiently awaited his return. The child, nameless and adressed only as "the Child" was revered and believed to be an incarnation of Tou's will. As the child grew, he established a philosophy of his own, and the monks accepted it as the word of Tou himself. Toulessness, as the new philosophy was called, taught that the people of the world needed to accept that Tou would never return until a perfected society could be formed.
In 103 AT, the aged Child made his last public appearance before retiring to the monastary's inner sanctum which he has never left. In the centuries since, generation after generation of monks have entered the sanctum and come out with new teachings, answer to philosophical questions, and anything else they needed to know. The Child himself, however, has not been seen in nearly 1900 years.
Cad'ika Orade09/21/2018
By 103 AT, nearly half the Kwandishi tribes had adopted Toulessness and their guiding philosophy, abandoned their tribal identities, and joined into a single culture seeking perfection. By 700 AT, the religion had engulfed the whole landmass. It was in this year that a prophecy was delivered to the people, presented by the eldest monk who had just spent an entire month communing with the Child in the sanctum. The prophecy was a roadmap toward perfection, with milestones set at specific dates, and so long as the Kwandishi could meet each milestone they would certainly approach perfection.
By 800 AT, the Kwandishi had effectively scrubbed all knowledge of their tribal divisions out of their culture, eradicating old historical an genealogical records, and any maps that showed any hint of the past divisions. A cultural shift had emphasized finding a spouse who was as physiologically different as possible, resulting in increased physical homogeny.
By 900 AT, a sort of rotating caste system had been developed, organizing labor and management based on age such that every individual would spend some time at every tier of society at some point of their life.
Finally, on 1,000 AT the democratic government was formally dissolved and replaced with the Touless One. The One was the only non-monk permitted to commune with the Child, and they were granted an absolute power of rule over all of Kwandish. The first One ordered the establishment of formal communications outside their border, and the second One had organized a military.
Kwandishi culture is unique and inexplicable. There are no historical records, and their language has no form of past tense, as Toulessness asserts that the past does not matter, only the present.
The only written records are of things that are or will be, such as objective facts. Even their fiction is composed in a future tense, describing what characters will do, as opposed to what characters did.
Kwandishi culture is one without currency, as Toulessness mandates that every one provide whatever any other one requires. It's an economic model, or perhaps lack thereof, that appears bizarrely idealized as natural, selfish impulses seem totally absent.